---
title: Styles
page_title: Styles
slug: radwordsprocessing-concepts-styles
tags: styles
published: True
position: 4
---

# Styles



__RadFlowDocument__ includes repository of [Style](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/api/Telerik.Windows.Documents.Flow.Model.Styles.Style.html) objects which contain sets of character, paragraph or table [style properties]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-style-properties%}). They provide rich editing capabilities with consistent look over different content inside the document. Styles allow formatting properties to be stored and managed independently from the content. [RadFlowDocument]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-radflowdocument%}) keeps its styles in __StyleRepository__ object accessible through the __RadFlowDocument.StyleRepository__ property.


## Style Class Overview

The class containing the styling structure is called __Style__. Each style contains the following properties:
        

* __Id__: The ID of the style. All styles in a __StyleRepository__ should have unique IDs. This property cannot be set after adding the style in a __StyleRepository__, in such situations *InvalidOperationException* is thrown. The value of this property will be associated with the StyleId property of the corresponding document element.
            

* __StyleType__: The [type](#style-types) of the style, described with [StyleType enumeration](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/api/Telerik.Windows.Documents.Flow.Model.Styles.StyleType.html). It can be __Character__, __Paragraph__ or __Table__ and determines the types of document elements to which the style is applied.
            

* __Name__: The name of the style, which can be used in an application's user interface.
            

* __BasedOnStyleId__: The ID of the parent (base) style, which the current style inherits.
            

* __NextStyleId__: The ID of the style, which is automatically applied by an editing application to a new paragraph added after the paragraph with the current style applied to it.
            

* __LinkedStyleId__: The ID of a style to which the current style is [linked](#linked-styles). This property can point only from paragraph style to character style and vice versa.
            

* __IsDefault__: Specifies that the style is the [default style](#default-styles) for its style type. This property is used in conjunction with the style type to determine the style, which is applied to objects that do not have explicitly applied a style.
            

* __IsCustom__: Specifies that the style is user-defined and it is not automatically generated by an application. This setting does not allow the formatting associated with the style to be changed automatically by an application.
            

* __IsPrimary__: Specifies that the style is important for the document. Typically applications show such styles in easily accessible part of the UI.
            

* __UIPriority__: Specifies a number used by an application to sort the styles in its UI.
            

## Style Types

A style can contain one or more of five different sets of style properties, depending on its type: __CharacterProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__, __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__. There are three types of styles:
        

* __Character styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Run]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-run%}) such as: font style, font size, font family, font-weight, etc. Styles of this type contain only __CharacterProperties__ set of style properties.
            

* __Paragraph styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Paragraph]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-paragraph%}) such as: text alignment, spacing (before and after), indentation, etc. Styles of this type contain __ParagraphProperties__ and __CharacterProperties__ sets of style properties, where character properties are used to format the __Runs__ inside the styled __Paragraph__.
            

* __Table styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Table]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-table%}) and table-related document elements ([TableRow]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-tablerow%}) and [TableCell]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-tablecell%})), such as borders, background, alignment, padding, etc. Styles of this type contain __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__ and __CharacterProperties__ sets of style properties, where table row and table cell properties are used to format child __TableRows__ and __TableCells__, paragraph and character properties are used to format the __Paragraphs__ and __Runs__ in the styled table.
            

* __Numbering styles__: Used to represent [Lists]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-lists%}) in the user interface of an application. Style with this type cannot be referenced directly by document elements. It holds only information about the associated list.
            

## Creating New Styles

A style should be added to __RadFlowDocument__'s style repository in order to be further applied to elements and participate in style properties evaluation process. For example, the code from __Example 1__ creates a table style and adds it to the style repository.
        

#### __Example 1: Create a table style and add it to the style repository__

<snippet id='codeblock-x'/>


>If a style is not added to the StyleRepository, applying it to a document element would not take any effect.

To apply a style to a spesific element you neet to set its __StyleId__ proerty.

#### __Example 2: Apply a custom style to an element__

<snippet id='codeblock-y'/>

## Default Styles

Default style is a style which, according to its style type, is applied to objects that do not have explicitly applied a style. By default, style repository contains two default styles:
        

* __"Normal"__: Default style for __Paragraph__ and __Run__ document elements. "Normal" style additionally inherits from the default style properties of the document stored in __RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyle__ property.
            

* __"TableNormal"__: Default style for __Table__, __TableRow__ and __TableCell__ document elements.
            

>If you want to set default values for properties of all __Run__ and __Paragraph__ document elements, it is convenient to use __CharacterPoperties__ and __ParagraphProperties__ stored in __RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyle__ property. Setting default values for properties for all __Table__, __TableRow__ and __TableCell__ document elements should be done in the default table style - "TableNormal".

 You can change the default styling properties for a document through the DefaultStyle property of RadFlowDocument. **Example 3** shows how you can do that for the font-family, and similar code can be used for the other styling properties for the runs and paragraphs inside a document.
          
#### __Example 3: Set a default font-family__

<snippet id='codeblock-z'/>


## Built-in Styles

Built-in styles are commonly used styles, which are predefined for convenience. They have to be explicitly added to the style repository before usage using the __StyleRepository.AddBuiltInStyle()__ method.
        

[BuiltInStyleNames](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/api/Telerik.Windows.Documents.Flow.Model.Styles.BuiltInStyleNames.html) static class contains properties and methods for getting the IDs of all built-in styles. __Example 4__ shows how to get the ID of the "Heading 1" built-in style.
        

#### __Example 4: Get the ID of a built-in style__

<snippet id='codeblock-aab'/>



__BuiltInStyles__ static class can be used for working with the raw built-in styles.
        

## Linked Styles

Linked style is a grouping of paragraph style and character style into a pair with a link between them. This allows applications to apply common set of style properties to __Paragraphs__ and __Runs__:
        

* __Linked style is applied to Paragraph__: The paragraph style part of the linked pair is applied to the Paragraph.
            

* __Linked style is applied to Run__: The character style part of the linked pair is applied to the Run.
            

Styles are linked by setting __Style.LinkedStyleId__ property to the ID of the other style in the pair.
        

## Style Evaluation and Inheritance

When evaluating the actual value of a style property in one of the style properties sets (__CharacterProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__, __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__), the style system uses the following rules:
        

1. If the style property has a local value set, it is returned.
1. If the corresponding style property of the base style has a local value set, this value is returned.            
1. If the corresponding style property in the default style has a local value*, this value is returned.           
1. If this is character or paragraph style property, and if the corresponding property from document's default Paragraph and Character settings stored in RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyles property has a local value, this value is used.
            

> __*__ If a style is of character or paragraph style type it takes into consideration the default style only if it is based on it.


>tipSome of the style properties always have a local value set.


Corresponding style property of the base style is determined depending on the style type using the following rules:
        

### Character style

Character style can only be based on other character styles. The inheritance is as follows:
            

* Character properties inherit the character properties from the base style.
                

### Paragraph style

Paragraph style can be based on other paragraph or linked styles.
            

* When a paragraph style is based on another paragraph style, the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base paragraph style.                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

* When a paragraph style is based on a linked style, the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the paragraph style part in the base linked style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the character style part in the base linked style.
                    

### Table style

Table styles can only be based on other table styles. The inheritance is as follows:
            

* Character properties inherit the character properties from the base style.
                

* Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base table style.
                

* Table properties inherit the table properties from the base table style.
                

* Table row properties inherit the table row properties from the base table style.
                

* Table cell properties inherit the table cell properties from the base table style.
                

### Linked style

Linked styles can be based on other linked styles or on paragraph styles.
            

* When a linked style is based on a paragraph style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

* When a linked style is based on another linked style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base linked paragraph style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base linked character style.
                    

## See Also

 * [Styles API Reference](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/api/Telerik.Windows.Documents.Flow.Model.Styles.Style.html)
 * [RadFlowDocument]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-radflowdocument%})
 * [Run]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-run%})
 * [Paragraph]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-paragraph%})
 * [Table]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-table%})
 * [BuiltInStyleNames API Reference](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/api/Telerik.Windows.Documents.Flow.Model.Styles.BuiltInStyleNames.html)
 * [Lists]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-lists%})
